=pod

=head1 NAME

BIO_pprintf, BIO_vprintf, BIO_ssnprintf, BIO_vsnprintf
- formatted output to a BIO

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/bio.h>

 int BIO_pprintf(BIO *bio, const char *format, ...)
 int BIO_vprintf(BIO *bio, const char *format, va_list args)

 int BIO_ssnprintf(char *buf, size_t n, const char *format, ...)
 int BIO_vsnprintf(char *buf, size_t n, const char *format, va_list args)

=head1 DESCRIPTION

BIO_pprintf() is similar to the standard C printf() function, except that
the output is sent to the specified BIO, B<bio>, rather than standard
output.  All common format specifiers are supported.

BIO_vprintf() is similar to the vprintf() function found on many platforms,
the output is sent to the specified BIO, B<bio>, rather than standard
output.  All common format specifiers are supported. The argument
list B<args> is a stdarg argument list.

BIO_ssnprintf() is for platforms that do not have the common snprintf()
function. It is like sprintf() except that the size parameter, B<n>,
specifies the size of the output buffer.

BIO_vsnprintf() is to BIO_ssnprintf() as BIO_vprintf() is to BIO_pprintf().

=head1 RETURN VALUES

All functions return the number of bytes written, or -1 on error.
For BIO_ssnprintf() and BIO_vsnprintf() this includes when the output
buffer is too small.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
