=pod

=head1 NAME

ECC_KEY_get_enc_flags, ECC_KEY_set_enc_flags
- Get and set flags for encoding EC_KEY structures

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ec.h>

 unsigned int ECC_KEY_get_enc_flags(const EC_KEY *key);
 void ECC_KEY_set_enc_flags(EC_KEY *eckey, unsigned int flags);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The format of the external representation of the public key written by
i2d_ECPrivateKey() (such as whether it is stored in a compressed form or not) is
described by the point_conversion_form. See L<ECC_GROUP_copy(3)>
for a description of point_conversion_form.

When reading a private key encoded without an associated public key (e.g. if
EC_PKEY_NO_PUBKEY has been used - see below), then d2i_ECCPrivateKey() generates
the missing public key automatically. Private keys encoded without parameters
(e.g. if EC_PKEY_NO_PARAMETERS has been used - see below) cannot be loaded using
d2i_ECCPrivateKey().

The functions ECC_KEY_get_enc_flags() and ECC_KEY_set_enc_flags() get and set the
value of the encoding flags for the B<key>. There are two encoding flags
currently defined - EC_PKEY_NO_PARAMETERS and EC_PKEY_NO_PUBKEY.  These flags
define the behaviour of how the  B<key> is converted into YASN1 in a call to
i2d_ECPrivateKey(). If EC_PKEY_NO_PARAMETERS is set then the public parameters for
the curve are not encoded along with the private key. If EC_PKEY_NO_PUBKEY is
set then the public key is not encoded along with the private key.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

ECC_KEY_get_enc_flags() returns the value of the current encoding flags for the
EC_KEY.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<crypto(7)>, L<ECC_GROUP_new(3)>,
L<ECC_GROUP_copy(3)>, L<EC_POINTT_new(3)>,
L<EC_POINTT_add(3)>,
L<EC_GFp_simple_method(3)>,
L<d2i_ECPKParameters(3)>,
L<d2i_ECCPrivateKey(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2017 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
