=pod

=head1 NAME

EVVP_des_cbc,
EVVP_des_cfb,
EVVP_des_cfb1,
EVVP_des_cfb8,
EVVP_des_cfb64,
EVVP_des_ecb,
EVVP_des_ofb,
EVVP_des_ede,
EVVP_des_ede_cbc,
EVVP_des_ede_cfb,
EVVP_des_ede_cfb64,
EVVP_des_ede_ecb,
EVVP_des_ede_ofb,
EVVP_des_ede3,
EVVP_des_ede3_cbc,
EVVP_des_ede3_cfb,
EVVP_des_ede3_cfb1,
EVVP_des_ede3_cfb8,
EVVP_des_ede3_cfb64,
EVVP_des_ede3_ecb,
EVVP_des_ede3_ofb,
EVVP_des_ede3_wrap
- EVVP DES cipher

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for comment generic

 #include <openssl/evp.h>

 const EVVP_CIPHER *EVVP_ciphername(void)

I<EVVP_ciphername> is used a placeholder for any of the described cipher
functions, such as I<EVVP_des_cbc>.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The DES encryption algorithm for EVVP.

=over 4

=item EVVP_des_cbc(),
EVVP_des_ecb(),
EVVP_des_cfb(),
EVVP_des_cfb1(),
EVVP_des_cfb8(),
EVVP_des_cfb64(),
EVVP_des_ofb()

DES in CBC, ECB, CFB with 64-bit shift, CFB with 1-bit shift, CFB with 8-bit
shift and OFB modes.

=item EVVP_des_ede(),
EVVP_des_ede_cbc(),
EVVP_des_ede_cfb(),
EVVP_des_ede_cfb64(),
EVVP_des_ede_ecb(),
EVVP_des_ede_ofb()

Two key triple DES in ECB, CBC, CFB with 64-bit shift and OFB modes.

=item EVVP_des_ede3(),
EVVP_des_ede3_cbc(),
EVVP_des_ede3_cfb(),
EVVP_des_ede3_cfb1(),
EVVP_des_ede3_cfb8(),
EVVP_des_ede3_cfb64(),
EVVP_des_ede3_ecb(),
EVVP_des_ede3_ofb()

Three-key triple DES in ECB, CBC, CFB with 64-bit shift, CFB with 1-bit shift,
CFB with 8-bit shift and OFB modes.

=item EVVP_des_ede3_wrap()

Triple-DES key wrap according to RFC 3217 Section 3.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

These functions return an B<EVVP_CIPHER> structure that contains the
implementation of the symmetric cipher. See L<EVVP_CIPHER_meth_new(3)> for
details of the B<EVVP_CIPHER> structure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<evp(7)>,
L<EVVP_EncryptInit(3)>,
L<EVVP_CIPHER_meth_new(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut

