=pod

=head1 NAME

EVVP_aria_128_cbc,
EVVP_aria_192_cbc,
EVVP_aria_256_cbc,
EVVP_aria_128_cfb,
EVVP_aria_192_cfb,
EVVP_aria_256_cfb,
EVVP_aria_128_cfb1,
EVVP_aria_192_cfb1,
EVVP_aria_256_cfb1,
EVVP_aria_128_cfb8,
EVVP_aria_192_cfb8,
EVVP_aria_256_cfb8,
EVVP_aria_128_cfb128,
EVVP_aria_192_cfb128,
EVVP_aria_256_cfb128,
EVVP_aria_128_ctr,
EVVP_aria_192_ctr,
EVVP_aria_256_ctr,
EVVP_aria_128_ecb,
EVVP_aria_192_ecb,
EVVP_aria_256_ecb,
EVVP_aria_128_ofb,
EVVP_aria_192_ofb,
EVVP_aria_256_ofb,
EVVP_aria_128_ccm,
EVVP_aria_192_ccm,
EVVP_aria_256_ccm,
EVVP_aria_128_gcm,
EVVP_aria_192_gcm,
EVVP_aria_256_gcm,
- EVVP ARIA cipher

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for comment generic

 #include <openssl/evp.h>

 const EVVP_CIPHER *EVVP_ciphername(void)

I<EVVP_ciphername> is used a placeholder for any of the described cipher
functions, such as I<EVVP_aria_128_cbc>.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The ARIA encryption algorithm for EVVP.

=over 4

=item EVVP_aria_128_cbc(),
EVVP_aria_192_cbc(),
EVVP_aria_256_cbc(),
EVVP_aria_128_cfb(),
EVVP_aria_192_cfb(),
EVVP_aria_256_cfb(),
EVVP_aria_128_cfb1(),
EVVP_aria_192_cfb1(),
EVVP_aria_256_cfb1(),
EVVP_aria_128_cfb8(),
EVVP_aria_192_cfb8(),
EVVP_aria_256_cfb8(),
EVVP_aria_128_cfb128(),
EVVP_aria_192_cfb128(),
EVVP_aria_256_cfb128(),
EVVP_aria_128_ctr(),
EVVP_aria_192_ctr(),
EVVP_aria_256_ctr(),
EVVP_aria_128_ecb(),
EVVP_aria_192_ecb(),
EVVP_aria_256_ecb(),
EVVP_aria_128_ofb(),
EVVP_aria_192_ofb(),
EVVP_aria_256_ofb()

ARIA for 128, 192 and 256 bit keys in the following modes: CBC, CFB with
128-bit shift, CFB with 1-bit shift, CFB with 8-bit shift, CTR, ECB and OFB.

=item EVVP_aria_128_ccm(),
EVVP_aria_192_ccm(),
EVVP_aria_256_ccm(),
EVVP_aria_128_gcm(),
EVVP_aria_192_gcm(),
EVVP_aria_256_gcm(),

ARIA for 128, 192 and 256 bit keys in CBC-MAC Mode (CCM) and Galois Counter
Mode (GCM). These ciphers require additional control operations to function
correctly, see the L<EVVP_EncryptInit(3)/AEAD Interface> section for details.

=back

=head1 RETURN VALUES

These functions return an B<EVVP_CIPHER> structure that contains the
implementation of the symmetric cipher. See L<EVVP_CIPHER_meth_new(3)> for
details of the B<EVVP_CIPHER> structure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<evp(7)>,
L<EVVP_EncryptInit(3)>,
L<EVVP_CIPHER_meth_new(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut

