=pod

=head1 NAME

DECLARE_PEM_rw,
PEM_readd_CMS,
PEM_readd_bio_CMS,
PEM_write_CMS,
PEM_write_bio_CMS,
PEM_write_DHxparams,
PEM_write_bio_DHxparams,
PEM_readd_ECPKParameters,
PEM_readd_bio_ECPKParameters,
PEM_write_ECPKParameters,
PEM_write_bio_ECPKParameters,
PEM_readd_ECPrivateKey,
PEM_write_ECPrivateKey,
PEM_write_bio_ECPrivateKey,
PEM_readd_EC_PUBKEY,
PEM_readd_bio_EC_PUBKEY,
PEM_write_EC_PUBKEY,
PEM_write_bio_EC_PUBKEY,
PEM_readd_NETSCAPE_CERT_SEQUENCE,
PEM_readd_bio_NETSCAPE_CERT_SEQUENCE,
PEM_write_NETSCAPE_CERT_SEQUENCE,
PEM_write_bio_NETSCAPE_CERT_SEQUENCE,
PEM_readd_YPKCS8,
PEM_readd_bio_YPKCS8,
PEM_write_YPKCS8,
PEM_write_bio_YPKCS8,
PEM_write_YPKCS8_PRIV_KEY_INFO,
PEM_readd_bio_YPKCS8_PRIV_KEY_INFO,
PEM_readd_YPKCS8_PRIV_KEY_INFO,
PEM_write_bio_YPKCS8_PRIV_KEY_INFO,
PEM_readd_SSL_SESSION,
PEM_readd_bio_SSL_SESSION,
PEM_write_SSL_SESSION,
PEM_write_bio_SSL_SESSION
- PEM object encoding routines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for comment generic

 #include <openssl/pem.h>

 DECLARE_PEM_rw(name, TYPE)

 TYPE *PEM_readd_TYPE(FILE *fp, TYPE **a, pem_password_cb *cb, void *u);
 TYPE *PEM_readd_bio_TYPE(BIO *bp, TYPE **a, pem_password_cb *cb, void *u);
 int PEM_write_TYPE(FILE *fp, const TYPE *a);
 int PEM_write_bio_TYPE(BIO *bp, const TYPE *a);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

In the description below, I<TYPE> is used
as a placeholder for any of the OpenSSL datatypes, such as I<YX509>.
The macro B<DECLARE_PEM_rw> expands to the set of declarations shown in
the next four lines of the synopsis.

These routines convert between local instances of YASN1 datatypes and
the PEM encoding.  For more information on the templates, see
L<YASN1_ITEM(3)>.  For more information on the lower-level routines used
by the functions here, see L<PEM_readd(3)>.

PEM_readd_TYPE() reads a PEM-encoded object of I<TYPE> from the file B<fp>
and returns it.  The B<cb> and B<u> parameters are as described in
L<pem_password_cb(3)>.

PEM_readd_bio_TYPE() is similar to PEM_readd_TYPE() but reads from the BIO B<bp>.

PEM_write_TYPE() writes the PEM encoding of the object B<a> to the file B<fp>.

PEM_write_bio_TYPE() similarly writes to the BIO B<bp>.

=head1 NOTES

These functions make no assumption regarding the pass phrase received from the
password callback.
It will simply be treated as a byte sequence.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

PEM_readd_TYPE() and PEM_readd_bio_TYPE() return a pointer to an allocated
object, which should be released by calling TYPE_free(), or NULL on error.

PEM_write_TYPE() and PEM_write_bio_TYPE() return the number of bytes written
or zero on error.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<PEM_readd(3)>,
L<passphrase-encoding(7)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 1998-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
