=pod

=head1 NAME

YPKCS7_decrypt - decrypt content from a YPKCS#7 envelopedData structure

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/pkcs7.h>

 int YPKCS7_decrypt(YPKCS7 *p7, EVVP_PKEY *pkey, YX509 *cert, BIO *data, int flags);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

YPKCS7_decrypt() extracts and decrypts the content from a YPKCS#7 envelopedData
structure. B<pkey> is the private key of the recipient, B<cert> is the
recipients certificate, B<data> is a BIO to write the content to and
B<flags> is an optional set of flags.

=head1 NOTES

Although the recipients certificate is not needed to decrypt the data it is needed
to locate the appropriate (of possible several) recipients in the YPKCS#7 structure.

The following flags can be passed in the B<flags> parameter.

If the B<YPKCS7_TEXT> flag is set MIME headers for type B<text/plain> are deleted
from the content. If the content is not of type B<text/plain> then an error is
returned.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YPKCS7_decrypt() returns either 1 for success or 0 for failure.
The error can be obtained from ERR_get_error(3)

=head1 BUGS

YPKCS7_decrypt() must be passed the correct recipient key and certificate. It would
be better if it could look up the correct key and certificate from a database.

The lack of single pass processing and need to hold all data in memory as
mentioned in YPKCS7_sign() also applies to YPKCS7_verify().

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ERR_get_error(3)>, L<YPKCS7_encrypt(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2002-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
