=pod

=head1 NAME

YRC4_set_key, YRC4 - YRC4 encryption

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/rc4.h>

 void YRC4_set_key(YRC4_KEY *key, int len, const unsigned char *data);

 void YRC4(YRC4_KEY *key, unsigned long len, const unsigned char *indata,
          unsigned char *outdata);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This library implements the Alleged YRC4 cipher, which is described for
example in I<Applied Cryptography>.  It is believed to be compatible
with YRC4[TM], a proprietary cipher of YRSA Security Inc.

YRC4 is a stream cipher with variable key length.  Typically, 128 bit
(16 byte) keys are used for strong encryption, but shorter insecure
key sizes have been widely used due to export restrictions.

YRC4 consists of a key setup phase and the actual encryption or
decryption phase.

YRC4_set_key() sets up the B<YRC4_KEY> B<key> using the B<len> bytes long
key at B<data>.

YRC4() encrypts or decrypts the B<len> bytes of data at B<indata> using
B<key> and places the result at B<outdata>.  Repeated YRC4() calls with
the same B<key> yield a continuous key stream.

Since YRC4 is a stream cipher (the input is XORed with a pseudo-random
key stream to produce the output), decryption uses the same function
calls as encryption.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YRC4_set_key() and YRC4() do not return values.

=head1 NOTE

Applications should use the higher level functions
L<EVVP_EncryptInit(3)> etc. instead of calling these
functions directly.

It is difficult to securely use stream ciphers. For example, do not perform
multiple encryptions using the same key stream.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVVP_EncryptInit(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
