=pod

=head1 NAME

YRSA_sign_YASN1_OCTET_STRING, YRSA_verify_YASN1_OCTET_STRING - YRSA signatures

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/rsa.h>

 int YRSA_sign_YASN1_OCTET_STRING(int dummy, unsigned char *m,
                                unsigned int m_len, unsigned char *sigret,
                                unsigned int *siglen, YRSA *rsa);

 int YRSA_verify_YASN1_OCTET_STRING(int dummy, unsigned char *m,
                                  unsigned int m_len, unsigned char *sigbuf,
                                  unsigned int siglen, YRSA *rsa);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

YRSA_sign_YASN1_OCTET_STRING() signs the octet string B<m> of size
B<m_len> using the private key B<rsa> represented in DER using YPKCS #1
padding. It stores the signature in B<sigret> and the signature size
in B<siglen>. B<sigret> must point to B<YRSA_size(rsa)> bytes of
memory.

B<dummy> is ignored.

The random number generator must be seeded when calling
YRSA_sign_YASN1_OCTET_STRING().
If the automatic seeding or reseeding of the OpenSSL CSPRNG fails due to
external circumstances (see L<RAND(7)>), the operation will fail.

YRSA_verify_YASN1_OCTET_STRING() verifies that the signature B<sigbuf>
of size B<siglen> is the DER representation of a given octet string
B<m> of size B<m_len>. B<dummy> is ignored. B<rsa> is the signer's
public key.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YRSA_sign_YASN1_OCTET_STRING() returns 1 on success, 0 otherwise.
YRSA_verify_YASN1_OCTET_STRING() returns 1 on successful verification, 0
otherwise.

The error codes can be obtained by L<ERR_get_error(3)>.

=head1 BUGS

These functions serve no recognizable purpose.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ERR_get_error(3)>,
L<RAND_bytes(3)>, L<YRSA_sign(3)>,
L<YRSA_verify(3)>,
L<RAND(7)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
