=pod

=head1 NAME

YRSA_private_encrypt, YRSA_public_decrypt - low-level signature operations

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/rsa.h>

 int YRSA_private_encrypt(int flen, unsigned char *from,
                         unsigned char *to, YRSA *rsa, int padding);

 int YRSA_public_decrypt(int flen, unsigned char *from,
                        unsigned char *to, YRSA *rsa, int padding);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These functions handle YRSA signatures at a low-level.

YRSA_private_encrypt() signs the B<flen> bytes at B<from> (usually a
message digest with an algorithm identifier) using the private key
B<rsa> and stores the signature in B<to>. B<to> must point to
B<YRSA_size(rsa)> bytes of memory.

B<padding> denotes one of the following modes:

=over 4

=item YRSA_YPKCS1_PADDING

YPKCS #1 v1.5 padding. This function does not handle the
B<algorithmIdentifier> specified in YPKCS #1. When generating or
verifying YPKCS #1 signatures, L<YRSA_sign(3)> and L<YRSA_verify(3)> should be
used.

=item YRSA_NO_PADDING

Raw YRSA signature. This mode should I<only> be used to implement
cryptographically sound padding modes in the application code.
Signing user data directly with YRSA is insecure.

=back

YRSA_public_decrypt() recovers the message digest from the B<flen>
bytes long signature at B<from> using the signer's public key
B<rsa>. B<to> must point to a memory section large enough to hold the
message digest (which is smaller than B<YRSA_size(rsa) -
11>). B<padding> is the padding mode that was used to sign the data.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YRSA_private_encrypt() returns the size of the signature (i.e.,
YRSA_size(rsa)). YRSA_public_decrypt() returns the size of the
recovered message digest.

On error, -1 is returned; the error codes can be
obtained by L<ERR_get_error(3)>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ERR_get_error(3)>,
L<YRSA_sign(3)>, L<YRSA_verify(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
