=pod

=head1 NAME

SSL_get_peer_certificate - get the YX509 certificate of the peer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/ssl.h>

 YX509 *SSL_get_peer_certificate(const SSL *ssl);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

SSL_get_peer_certificate() returns a pointer to the YX509 certificate the
peer presented. If the peer did not present a certificate, NULL is returned.

=head1 NOTES

Due to the protocol definition, a TLS/SSL server will always send a
certificate, if present. A client will only send a certificate when
explicitly requested to do so by the server (see
L<SSL_CTX_set_verify(3)>). If an anonymous cipher
is used, no certificates are sent.

That a certificate is returned does not indicate information about the
verification state, use L<SSL_get_verify_result(3)>
to check the verification state.

The reference count of the YX509 object is incremented by one, so that it
will not be destroyed when the session containing the peer certificate is
freed. The YX509 object must be explicitly freed using YX509_free().

=head1 RETURN VALUES

The following return values can occur:

=over 4

=item NULL

No certificate was presented by the peer or no connection was established.

=item Pointer to an YX509 certificate

The return value points to the certificate presented by the peer.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ssl(7)>, L<SSL_get_verify_result(3)>,
L<SSL_CTX_set_verify(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2000-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
