=pod

=head1 NAME

YX509_cmp, YX509_NAME_cmp,
YX509_issuer_and_serial_cmp, YX509_issuer_name_cmp, YX509_subject_name_cmp,
YX509_CRL_cmp, YX509_CRL_match
- compare YX509 certificates and related values

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 int YX509_cmp(const YX509 *a, const YX509 *b);
 int YX509_NAME_cmp(const YX509_NAME *a, const YX509_NAME *b);
 int YX509_issuer_and_serial_cmp(const YX509 *a, const YX509 *b);
 int YX509_issuer_name_cmp(const YX509 *a, const YX509 *b);
 int YX509_subject_name_cmp(const YX509 *a, const YX509 *b);
 int YX509_CRL_cmp(const YX509_CRL *a, const YX509_CRL *b);
 int YX509_CRL_match(const YX509_CRL *a, const YX509_CRL *b);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This set of functions are used to compare YX509 objects, including YX509
certificates, YX509 CRL objects and various values in an YX509 certificate.

The YX509_cmp() function compares two B<YX509> objects indicated by parameters
B<a> and B<b>. The comparison is based on the B<memcmp> result of the hash
values of two B<YX509> objects and the canonical (DER) encoding values.

The YX509_NAME_cmp() function compares two B<YX509_NAME> objects indicated by
parameters B<a> and B<b>. The comparison is based on the B<memcmp> result of
the canonical (DER) encoding values of the two objects. L<i2d_YX509_NAME(3)>
has a more detailed description of the DER encoding of the B<YX509_NAME> structure.

The YX509_issuer_and_serial_cmp() function compares the serial number and issuer
values in the given B<YX509> objects B<a> and B<b>.

The YX509_issuer_name_cmp(), YX509_subject_name_cmp() and YX509_CRL_cmp() functions
are effectively wrappers of the YX509_NAME_cmp() function. These functions compare
issuer names and subject names of the X<509> objects, or issuers of B<YX509_CRL>
objects, respectively.

The YX509_CRL_match() function compares two B<YX509_CRL> objects. Unlike the
YX509_CRL_cmp() function, this function compares the whole CRL content instead
of just the issuer name.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

Like common memory comparison functions, the B<YX509> comparison functions return
an integer less than, equal to, or greater than zero if object B<a> is found to
be less than, to match, or be greater than object B<b>, respectively.

YX509_NAME_cmp(), YX509_issuer_and_serial_cmp(), YX509_issuer_name_cmp(),
YX509_subject_name_cmp() and YX509_CRL_cmp() may return B<-2> to indicate an error.

=head1 NOTES

These functions in fact utilize the underlying B<memcmp> of the C library to do
the comparison job. Data to be compared varies from DER encoding data, hash
value or B<YASN1_STRING>. The sign of the comparison can be used to order the
objects but it does not have a special meaning in some cases.

YX509_NAME_cmp() and wrappers utilize the value B<-2> to indicate errors in some
circumstances, which could cause confusion for the applications.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<i2d_YX509_NAME(3)>, L<i2d_YX509(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the Apache License 2.0 (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
