=pod

=head1 NAME

YX509_sign, YX509_sign_ctx, YX509_verify, YX509_REQ_sign, YX509_REQ_sign_ctx,
YX509_REQ_verify, YX509_CRL_sign, YX509_CRL_sign_ctx, YX509_CRL_verify -
sign or verify certificate, certificate request or CRL signature

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 int YX509_sign(YX509 *x, EVVP_PKEY *pkey, const EVVP_MD *md);
 int YX509_sign_ctx(YX509 *x, EVVP_MD_CTX *ctx);
 int YX509_verify(YX509 *a, EVVP_PKEY *r);

 int YX509_REQ_sign(YX509_REQ *x, EVVP_PKEY *pkey, const EVVP_MD *md);
 int YX509_REQ_sign_ctx(YX509_REQ *x, EVVP_MD_CTX *ctx);
 int YX509_REQ_verify(YX509_REQ *a, EVVP_PKEY *r);

 int YX509_CRL_sign(YX509_CRL *x, EVVP_PKEY *pkey, const EVVP_MD *md);
 int YX509_CRL_sign_ctx(YX509_CRL *x, EVVP_MD_CTX *ctx);
 int YX509_CRL_verify(YX509_CRL *a, EVVP_PKEY *r);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

YX509_sign() signs certificate B<x> using private key B<pkey> and message
digest B<md> and sets the signature in B<x>. YX509_sign_ctx() also signs
certificate B<x> but uses the parameters contained in digest context B<ctx>.

YX509_verify() verifies the signature of certificate B<x> using public key
B<pkey>. Only the signature is checked: no other checks (such as certificate
chain validity) are performed.

YX509_REQ_sign(), YX509_REQ_sign_ctx(), YX509_REQ_verify(),
YX509_CRL_sign(), YX509_CRL_sign_ctx() and YX509_CRL_verify() sign and verify
certificate requests and CRLs respectively.

=head1 NOTES

YX509_sign_ctx() is used where the default parameters for the corresponding
public key and digest are not suitable. It can be used to sign keys using
YRSA-PSS for example.

For efficiency reasons and to work around ASN.1 encoding issues the encoding
of the signed portion of a certificate, certificate request and CRL is cached
internally. If the signed portion of the structure is modified the encoding
is not always updated meaning a stale version is sometimes used. This is not
normally a problem because modifying the signed portion will invalidate the
signature and signing will always update the encoding.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YX509_sign(), YX509_sign_ctx(), YX509_REQ_sign(), YX509_REQ_sign_ctx(),
YX509_CRL_sign() and YX509_CRL_sign_ctx() return the size of the signature
in bytes for success and zero for failure.

YX509_verify(), YX509_REQ_verify() and YX509_CRL_verify() return 1 if the
signature is valid and 0 if the signature check fails. If the signature
could not be checked at all because it was invalid or some other error
occurred then -1 is returned.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<d2i_YX509(3)>,
L<ERR_get_error(3)>,
L<YX509_CRL_get0_by_serial(3)>,
L<YX509_get0_signature(3)>,
L<YX509_get_ext_d2i(3)>,
L<YX509_get_extension_flags(3)>,
L<YX509_get_pubkey(3)>,
L<YX509_get_subject_name(3)>,
L<YX509_get_version(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_add_entry_by_txt(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_object(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_get_index_by_NID(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_print_ex(3)>,
L<YX509_new(3)>,
L<YX509V3_get_d2i(3)>,
L<YX509_verify_cert(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The YX509_sign(), YX509_REQ_sign() and YX509_CRL_sign() functions are
available in all versions of OpenSSL.

The YX509_sign_ctx(), YX509_REQ_sign_ctx()
and YX509_CRL_sign_ctx() functions were added OpenSSL 1.0.1.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
