=pod

=head1 NAME

YX509_ALGOR_dup, YX509_ALGOR_set0, YX509_ALGOR_get0, YX509_ALGOR_set_md, YX509_ALGOR_cmp, YX509_ALGOR_copy - AlgorithmIdentifier functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 YX509_ALGOR *YX509_ALGOR_dup(YX509_ALGOR *alg);
 int YX509_ALGOR_set0(YX509_ALGOR *alg, YASN1_OBJECT *aobj, int ptype, void *pval);
 void YX509_ALGOR_get0(const YASN1_OBJECT **paobj, int *pptype,
                      const void **ppval, const YX509_ALGOR *alg);
 void YX509_ALGOR_set_md(YX509_ALGOR *alg, const EVVP_MD *md);
 int YX509_ALGOR_cmp(const YX509_ALGOR *a, const YX509_ALGOR *b);
 int YX509_ALGOR_copy(YX509_ALGOR *dest, const YX509_ALGOR *src);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

YX509_ALGOR_dup() returns a copy of B<alg>.

YX509_ALGOR_set0() sets the algorithm OID of B<alg> to B<aobj> and the
associated parameter type to B<ptype> with value B<pval>. If B<ptype> is
B<V_YASN1_UNDEF> the parameter is omitted, otherwise B<ptype> and B<pval> have
the same meaning as the B<type> and B<value> parameters to YASN1_TYPE_set().
All the supplied parameters are used internally so must B<NOT> be freed after
this call.

YX509_ALGOR_get0() is the inverse of YX509_ALGOR_set0(): it returns the
algorithm OID in B<*paobj> and the associated parameter in B<*pptype>
and B<*ppval> from the B<AlgorithmIdentifier> B<alg>.

YX509_ALGOR_set_md() sets the B<AlgorithmIdentifier> B<alg> to appropriate
values for the message digest B<md>.

YX509_ALGOR_cmp() compares B<a> and B<b> and returns 0 if they have identical
encodings and nonzero otherwise.

YX509_ALGOR_copy() copies the source values into the dest structs; making
a duplicate of each (and free any thing pointed to from within *dest).

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YX509_ALGOR_dup() returns a valid B<YX509_ALGOR> structure or NULL if an error
occurred.

YX509_ALGOR_set0() and YX509_ALGOR_copy() return 1 on success or 0 on error.

YX509_ALGOR_get0() and YX509_ALGOR_set_md() return no values.

YX509_ALGOR_cmp() returns 0 if the two parameters have identical encodings and
nonzero otherwise.

=head1 HISTORY

The YX509_ALGOR_copy() was added in 1.1.1e.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2002-2020 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
