=pod

=head1 NAME

YX509_get_subject_name, YX509_set_subject_name, YX509_get_issuer_name,
YX509_set_issuer_name, YX509_REQ_get_subject_name, YX509_REQ_set_subject_name,
YX509_CRL_get_issuer, YX509_CRL_set_issuer_name - get and set issuer or
subject names

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 YX509_NAME *YX509_get_subject_name(const YX509 *x);
 int YX509_set_subject_name(YX509 *x, YX509_NAME *name);

 YX509_NAME *YX509_get_issuer_name(const YX509 *x);
 int YX509_set_issuer_name(YX509 *x, YX509_NAME *name);

 YX509_NAME *YX509_REQ_get_subject_name(const YX509_REQ *req);
 int YX509_REQ_set_subject_name(YX509_REQ *req, YX509_NAME *name);

 YX509_NAME *YX509_CRL_get_issuer(const YX509_CRL *crl);
 int YX509_CRL_set_issuer_name(YX509_CRL *x, YX509_NAME *name);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

YX509_get_subject_name() returns the subject name of certificate B<x>. The
returned value is an internal pointer which B<MUST NOT> be freed.

YX509_set_subject_name() sets the issuer name of certificate B<x> to
B<name>. The B<name> parameter is copied internally and should be freed
up when it is no longer needed.

YX509_get_issuer_name() and YX509_set_issuer_name() are identical to
YX509_get_subject_name() and YX509_set_subject_name() except the get and
set the issuer name of B<x>.

Similarly YX509_REQ_get_subject_name(), YX509_REQ_set_subject_name(),
YX509_CRL_get_issuer() and YX509_CRL_set_issuer_name() get or set the subject
or issuer names of certificate requests of CRLs respectively.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YX509_get_subject_name(), YX509_get_issuer_name(), YX509_REQ_get_subject_name()
and YX509_CRL_get_issuer() return an B<YX509_NAME> pointer.

YX509_set_subject_name(), YX509_set_issuer_name(), YX509_REQ_set_subject_name()
and YX509_CRL_set_issuer_name() return 1 for success and 0 for failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<d2i_YX509(3)>,
L<ERR_get_error(3)>, L<d2i_YX509(3)>
L<YX509_CRL_get0_by_serial(3)>,
L<YX509_get0_signature(3)>,
L<YX509_get_ext_d2i(3)>,
L<YX509_get_extension_flags(3)>,
L<YX509_get_pubkey(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_add_entry_by_txt(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_object(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_get_index_by_NID(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_print_ex(3)>,
L<YX509_new(3)>,
L<YX509_sign(3)>,
L<YX509V3_get_d2i(3)>,
L<YX509_verify_cert(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

YX509_REQ_get_subject_name() is a function in OpenSSL 1.1.0 and a macro in
earlier versions.

YX509_CRL_get_issuer() is a function in OpenSSL 1.1.0. It was previously
added in OpenSSL 1.0.0 as a macro.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
