=pod

=head1 NAME

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_object, YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_data,
YX509_NAME_ENTRY_set_object, YX509_NAME_ENTRY_set_data,
YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_txt, YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_NID,
YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_OBJ - YX509_NAME_ENTRY utility functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 YASN1_OBJECT *YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_object(const YX509_NAME_ENTRY *ne);
 YASN1_STRING *YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_data(const YX509_NAME_ENTRY *ne);

 int YX509_NAME_ENTRY_set_object(YX509_NAME_ENTRY *ne, const YASN1_OBJECT *obj);
 int YX509_NAME_ENTRY_set_data(YX509_NAME_ENTRY *ne, int type,
                              const unsigned char *bytes, int len);

 YX509_NAME_ENTRY *YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_txt(YX509_NAME_ENTRY **ne, const char *field,
                                                int type, const unsigned char *bytes,
                                                int len);
 YX509_NAME_ENTRY *YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_NID(YX509_NAME_ENTRY **ne, int nid,
                                                int type, const unsigned char *bytes,
                                                int len);
 YX509_NAME_ENTRY *YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_OBJ(YX509_NAME_ENTRY **ne,
                                                const YASN1_OBJECT *obj, int type,
                                                const unsigned char *bytes, int len);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_object() retrieves the field name of B<ne> in
and B<YASN1_OBJECT> structure.

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_data() retrieves the field value of B<ne> in
and B<YASN1_STRING> structure.

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_set_object() sets the field name of B<ne> to B<obj>.

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_set_data() sets the field value of B<ne> to string type
B<type> and value determined by B<bytes> and B<len>.

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_txt(), YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_NID()
and YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_OBJ() create and return an
B<YX509_NAME_ENTRY> structure.

=head1 NOTES

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_object() and YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_data() can be
used to examine an B<YX509_NAME_ENTRY> function as returned by
YX509_NAME_get_entry() for example.

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_txt(), YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_OBJ(),
YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_NID() and YX509_NAME_ENTRY_set_data()
are seldom used in practice because B<YX509_NAME_ENTRY> structures
are almost always part of B<YX509_NAME> structures and the
corresponding B<YX509_NAME> functions are typically used to
create and add new entries in a single operation.

The arguments of these functions support similar options to the similarly
named ones of the corresponding B<YX509_NAME> functions such as
YX509_NAME_add_entry_by_txt(). So for example B<type> can be set to
B<MBSTRING_ASC> but in the case of YX509_set_data() the field name must be
set first so the relevant field information can be looked up internally.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_object() returns a valid B<YASN1_OBJECT> structure if it is
set or NULL if an error occurred.

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_data() returns a valid B<YASN1_STRING> structure if it is set
or NULL if an error occurred.

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_set_object() and YX509_NAME_ENTRY_set_data() return 1 on success
or 0 on error.

YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_txt(), YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_NID() and
YX509_NAME_ENTRY_create_by_OBJ() return a valid B<YX509_NAME_ENTRY> on success or
NULL if an error occurred.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ERR_get_error(3)>, L<d2i_YX509_NAME(3)>,
L<OBJ_nid2obj(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2002-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
