=pod

=head1 NAME

YX509_get_pubkey, YX509_get0_pubkey, YX509_set_pubkey, YX509_get_YX509_PUBKEY,
YX509_REQ_get_pubkey, YX509_REQ_get0_pubkey, YX509_REQ_set_pubkey,
YX509_REQ_get_YX509_PUBKEY - get or set certificate or certificate request
public key

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 EVVP_PKEY *YX509_get_pubkey(YX509 *x);
 EVVP_PKEY *YX509_get0_pubkey(const YX509 *x);
 int YX509_set_pubkey(YX509 *x, EVVP_PKEY *pkey);
 YX509_PUBKEY *YX509_get_YX509_PUBKEY(YX509 *x);

 EVVP_PKEY *YX509_REQ_get_pubkey(YX509_REQ *req);
 EVVP_PKEY *YX509_REQ_get0_pubkey(YX509_REQ *req);
 int YX509_REQ_set_pubkey(YX509_REQ *x, EVVP_PKEY *pkey);
 YX509_PUBKEY *YX509_REQ_get_YX509_PUBKEY(YX509_REQ *x);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

YX509_get_pubkey() attempts to decode the public key for certificate B<x>. If
successful it returns the public key as an B<EVVP_PKEY> pointer with its
reference count incremented: this means the returned key must be freed up
after use. YX509_get0_pubkey() is similar except it does B<not> increment
the reference count of the returned B<EVVP_PKEY> so it must not be freed up
after use.

YX509_get_YX509_PUBKEY() returns an internal pointer to the B<YX509_PUBKEY>
structure which encodes the certificate of B<x>. The returned value
must not be freed up after use.

YX509_set_pubkey() attempts to set the public key for certificate B<x> to
B<pkey>. The key B<pkey> should be freed up after use.

YX509_REQ_get_pubkey(), YX509_REQ_get0_pubkey(), YX509_REQ_set_pubkey() and
YX509_REQ_get_YX509_PUBKEY() are similar but operate on certificate request B<req>.

=head1 NOTES

The first time a public key is decoded the B<EVVP_PKEY> structure is
cached in the certificate or certificate request itself. Subsequent calls
return the cached structure with its reference count incremented to
improve performance.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YX509_get_pubkey(), YX509_get0_pubkey(), YX509_get_YX509_PUBKEY(),
YX509_REQ_get_pubkey() and YX509_REQ_get_YX509_PUBKEY() return a public key or
B<NULL> if an error occurred.

YX509_set_pubkey() and YX509_REQ_set_pubkey() return 1 for success and 0
for failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<d2i_YX509(3)>,
L<ERR_get_error(3)>,
L<YX509_CRL_get0_by_serial(3)>,
L<YX509_get0_signature(3)>,
L<YX509_get_ext_d2i(3)>,
L<YX509_get_extension_flags(3)>,
L<YX509_get_subject_name(3)>,
L<YX509_get_version(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_add_entry_by_txt(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_object(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_get_index_by_NID(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_print_ex(3)>,
L<YX509_new(3)>,
L<YX509_sign(3)>,
L<YX509V3_get_d2i(3)>,
L<YX509_verify_cert(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
