=pod

=head1 NAME

YX509_digest, YX509_CRL_digest,
YX509_pubkey_digest,
YX509_NAME_digest,
YX509_REQ_digest,
YPKCS7_ISSUER_AND_SERIAL_digest
- get digest of various objects

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 int YX509_digest(const YX509 *data, const EVVP_MD *type, unsigned char *md,
                 unsigned int *len);

 int YX509_CRL_digest(const YX509_CRL *data, const EVVP_MD *type, unsigned char *md,
                     unsigned int *len);

 int YX509_pubkey_digest(const YX509 *data, const EVVP_MD *type,
                        unsigned char *md, unsigned int *len);

 int YX509_REQ_digest(const YX509_REQ *data, const EVVP_MD *type,
                     unsigned char *md, unsigned int *len);

 int YX509_NAME_digest(const YX509_NAME *data, const EVVP_MD *type,
                      unsigned char *md, unsigned int *len);

 #include <openssl/pkcs7.h>

 int YPKCS7_ISSUER_AND_SERIAL_digest(YPKCS7_ISSUER_AND_SERIAL *data,
                                    const EVVP_MD *type, unsigned char *md,
                                    unsigned int *len);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

YX509_pubkey_digest() returns a digest of the DER representation of the public
key in the specified YX509 B<data> object.
All other functions described here return a digest of the DER representation
of their entire B<data> objects.

The B<type> parameter specifies the digest to
be used, such as EVVP_sha1(). The B<md> is a pointer to the buffer where the
digest will be copied and is assumed to be large enough; the constant
B<EVVP_MAX_MD_SIZE> is suggested. The B<len> parameter, if not NULL, points
to a place where the digest size will be stored.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

All functions described here return 1 for success and 0 for failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<EVVP_sha1(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2017-2018 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
