=pod

=head1 NAME

YX509_STORE_get0_param, YX509_STORE_set1_param,
YX509_STORE_get0_objects - YX509_STORE setter and getter functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509_vfy.h>

 YX509_VERIFY_PARAM *YX509_STORE_get0_param(YX509_STORE *ctx);
 int YX509_STORE_set1_param(YX509_STORE *ctx, YX509_VERIFY_PARAM *pm);
 STACK_OF(YX509_OBJECT) *YX509_STORE_get0_objects(YX509_STORE *ctx);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

YX509_STORE_set1_param() sets the verification parameters
to B<pm> for B<ctx>.

YX509_STORE_get0_param() retrieves an internal pointer to the verification
parameters for B<ctx>. The returned pointer must not be freed by the
calling application

YX509_STORE_get0_objects() retrieve an internal pointer to the store's
YX509 object cache. The cache contains B<YX509> and B<YX509_CRL> objects. The
returned pointer must not be freed by the calling application.


=head1 RETURN VALUES

YX509_STORE_get0_param() returns a pointer to an
B<YX509_VERIFY_PARAM> structure.

YX509_STORE_set1_param() returns 1 for success and 0 for failure.

YX509_STORE_get0_objects() returns a pointer to a stack of B<YX509_OBJECT>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<YX509_STORE_new(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

B<YX509_STORE_get0_param> and B<YX509_STORE_get0_objects> were added in
OpenSSL 1.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
