=pod

=head1 NAME

YX509_get0_notBefore, YX509_getm_notBefore, YX509_get0_notAfter,
YX509_getm_notAfter, YX509_set1_notBefore, YX509_set1_notAfter,
YX509_CRL_get0_lastUpdate, YX509_CRL_get0_nextUpdate, YX509_CRL_set1_lastUpdate,
YX509_CRL_set1_nextUpdate - get or set certificate or CRL dates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 const YASN1_TIME *YX509_get0_notBefore(const YX509 *x);
 const YASN1_TIME *YX509_get0_notAfter(const YX509 *x);

 YASN1_TIME *YX509_getm_notBefore(const YX509 *x);
 YASN1_TIME *YX509_getm_notAfter(const YX509 *x);

 int YX509_set1_notBefore(YX509 *x, const YASN1_TIME *tm);
 int YX509_set1_notAfter(YX509 *x, const YASN1_TIME *tm);

 const YASN1_TIME *YX509_CRL_get0_lastUpdate(const YX509_CRL *crl);
 const YASN1_TIME *YX509_CRL_get0_nextUpdate(const YX509_CRL *crl);

 int YX509_CRL_set1_lastUpdate(YX509_CRL *x, const YASN1_TIME *tm);
 int YX509_CRL_set1_nextUpdate(YX509_CRL *x, const YASN1_TIME *tm);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

YX509_get0_notBefore() and YX509_get0_notAfter() return the B<notBefore>
and B<notAfter> fields of certificate B<x> respectively. The value
returned is an internal pointer which must not be freed up after
the call.

YX509_getm_notBefore() and YX509_getm_notAfter() are similar to
YX509_get0_notBefore() and YX509_get0_notAfter() except they return
non-constant mutable references to the associated date field of
the certificate.

YX509_set1_notBefore() and YX509_set1_notAfter() set the B<notBefore>
and B<notAfter> fields of B<x> to B<tm>. Ownership of the passed
parameter B<tm> is not transferred by these functions so it must
be freed up after the call.

YX509_CRL_get0_lastUpdate() and YX509_CRL_get0_nextUpdate() return the
B<lastUpdate> and B<nextUpdate> fields of B<crl>. The value
returned is an internal pointer which must not be freed up after
the call. If the B<nextUpdate> field is absent from B<crl> then
B<NULL> is returned.

YX509_CRL_set1_lastUpdate() and YX509_CRL_set1_nextUpdate() set the B<lastUpdate>
and B<nextUpdate> fields of B<crl> to B<tm>. Ownership of the passed parameter
B<tm> is not transferred by these functions so it must be freed up after the
call.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YX509_get0_notBefore(), YX509_get0_notAfter() and YX509_CRL_get0_lastUpdate()
return a pointer to an B<YASN1_TIME> structure.

YX509_CRL_get0_lastUpdate() return a pointer to an B<YASN1_TIME> structure
or NULL if the B<lastUpdate> field is absent.

YX509_set1_notBefore(), YX509_set1_notAfter(), YX509_CRL_set1_lastUpdate() and
YX509_CRL_set1_nextUpdate() return 1 for success or 0 for failure.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<d2i_YX509(3)>,
L<ERR_get_error(3)>,
L<YX509_CRL_get0_by_serial(3)>,
L<YX509_get0_signature(3)>,
L<YX509_get_ext_d2i(3)>,
L<YX509_get_extension_flags(3)>,
L<YX509_get_pubkey(3)>,
L<YX509_get_subject_name(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_add_entry_by_txt(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_object(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_get_index_by_NID(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_print_ex(3)>,
L<YX509_new(3)>,
L<YX509_sign(3)>,
L<YX509V3_get_d2i(3)>,
L<YX509_verify_cert(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

These functions are available in all versions of OpenSSL.

YX509_get_notBefore() and YX509_get_notAfter() were deprecated in OpenSSL
1.1.0

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
