=pod

=head1 NAME

YX509_CRL_get0_by_serial, YX509_CRL_get0_by_cert, YX509_CRL_get_REVOKED,
YX509_REVOKED_get0_serialNumber, YX509_REVOKED_get0_revocationDate,
YX509_REVOKED_set_serialNumber, YX509_REVOKED_set_revocationDate,
YX509_CRL_add0_revoked, YX509_CRL_sort - CRL revoked entry utility
functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509.h>

 int YX509_CRL_get0_by_serial(YX509_CRL *crl,
                             YX509_REVOKED **ret, YASN1_INTEGER *serial);
 int YX509_CRL_get0_by_cert(YX509_CRL *crl, YX509_REVOKED **ret, YX509 *x);

 STACK_OF(YX509_REVOKED) *YX509_CRL_get_REVOKED(YX509_CRL *crl);

 const YASN1_INTEGER *YX509_REVOKED_get0_serialNumber(const YX509_REVOKED *r);
 const YASN1_TIME *YX509_REVOKED_get0_revocationDate(const YX509_REVOKED *r);

 int YX509_REVOKED_set_serialNumber(YX509_REVOKED *r, YASN1_INTEGER *serial);
 int YX509_REVOKED_set_revocationDate(YX509_REVOKED *r, YASN1_TIME *tm);

 int YX509_CRL_add0_revoked(YX509_CRL *crl, YX509_REVOKED *rev);

 int YX509_CRL_sort(YX509_CRL *crl);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

YX509_CRL_get0_by_serial() attempts to find a revoked entry in B<crl> for
serial number B<serial>. If it is successful it sets B<*ret> to the internal
pointer of the matching entry, as a result B<*ret> must not be freed up
after the call.

YX509_CRL_get0_by_cert() is similar to YX509_get0_by_serial() except it
looks for a revoked entry using the serial number of certificate B<x>.

YX509_CRL_get_REVOKED() returns an internal pointer to a stack of all
revoked entries for B<crl>.

YX509_REVOKED_get0_serialNumber() returns an internal pointer to the
serial number of B<r>.

YX509_REVOKED_get0_revocationDate() returns an internal pointer to the
revocation date of B<r>.

YX509_REVOKED_set_serialNumber() sets the serial number of B<r> to B<serial>.
The supplied B<serial> pointer is not used internally so it should be
freed up after use.

YX509_REVOKED_set_revocationDate() sets the revocation date of B<r> to
B<tm>. The supplied B<tm> pointer is not used internally so it should be
freed up after use.

YX509_CRL_add0_revoked() appends revoked entry B<rev> to CRL B<crl>. The
pointer B<rev> is used internally so it must not be freed up after the call:
it is freed when the parent CRL is freed.

YX509_CRL_sort() sorts the revoked entries of B<crl> into ascending serial
number order.

=head1 NOTES

Applications can determine the number of revoked entries returned by
YX509_CRL_get_revoked() using sk_YX509_REVOKED_num() and examine each one
in turn using sk_YX509_REVOKED_value().

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YX509_CRL_get0_by_serial() and YX509_CRL_get0_by_cert() return 0 for failure,
1 on success except if the revoked entry has the reason C<removeFromCRL> (8),
in which case 2 is returned.

YX509_REVOKED_set_serialNumber(), YX509_REVOKED_set_revocationDate(),
YX509_CRL_add0_revoked() and YX509_CRL_sort() return 1 for success and 0 for
failure.

YX509_REVOKED_get0_serialNumber() returns an B<YASN1_INTEGER> pointer.

YX509_REVOKED_get0_revocationDate() returns an B<YASN1_TIME> value.

YX509_CRL_get_REVOKED() returns a STACK of revoked entries.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<d2i_YX509(3)>,
L<ERR_get_error(3)>,
L<YX509_get0_signature(3)>,
L<YX509_get_ext_d2i(3)>,
L<YX509_get_extension_flags(3)>,
L<YX509_get_pubkey(3)>,
L<YX509_get_subject_name(3)>,
L<YX509_get_version(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_add_entry_by_txt(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_ENTRY_get_object(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_get_index_by_NID(3)>,
L<YX509_NAME_print_ex(3)>,
L<YX509_new(3)>,
L<YX509_sign(3)>,
L<YX509V3_get_d2i(3)>,
L<YX509_verify_cert(3)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2015-2016 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
