=pod

=head1 NAME

YX509_STORE_new, YX509_STORE_up_ref, YX509_STORE_free, YX509_STORE_lock,
YX509_STORE_unlock - YX509_STORE allocation, freeing and locking functions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #include <openssl/x509_vfy.h>

 YX509_STORE *YX509_STORE_new(void);
 void YX509_STORE_free(YX509_STORE *v);
 int YX509_STORE_lock(YX509_STORE *v);
 int YX509_STORE_unlock(YX509_STORE *v);
 int YX509_STORE_up_ref(YX509_STORE *v);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The YX509_STORE_new() function returns a new YX509_STORE.

YX509_STORE_up_ref() increments the reference count associated with the
YX509_STORE object.

YX509_STORE_lock() locks the store from modification by other threads,
YX509_STORE_unlock() unlocks it.

YX509_STORE_free() frees up a single YX509_STORE object.

=head1 RETURN VALUES

YX509_STORE_new() returns a newly created YX509_STORE or NULL if the call fails.

YX509_STORE_up_ref(), YX509_STORE_lock() and YX509_STORE_unlock() return
1 for success and 0 for failure.

YX509_STORE_free() does not return values.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<YX509_STORE_set_verify_cb_func(3)>
L<YX509_STORE_get0_param(3)>

=head1 HISTORY

The YX509_STORE_up_ref(), YX509_STORE_lock() and YX509_STORE_unlock()
functions were added in OpenSSL 1.1.0.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2016-2019 The OpenSSL Project Authors. All Rights Reserved.

Licensed under the OpenSSL license (the "License").  You may not use
this file except in compliance with the License.  You can obtain a copy
in the file LICENSE in the source distribution or at
L<https://www.openssl.org/source/license.html>.

=cut
